docs/wayflowcore/source/core/api/tools.rst, before:

Tools
=====

This page presents all APIs and classes related to tools in WayFlow


.. |agentspec-icon| image:: ../../_static/icons/agentspec-icon.svg
   :width: 100px

.. grid:: 1

    .. grid-item-card:: |agentspec-icon|
        :link: https://oracle.github.io/agent-spec/api/tools.html
        :link-alt: Agent Spec - Tools API Reference

        Visit the Agent Spec API Documentation to learn more about LLMs Components.


.. tip::

    Click the button above ↑ to visit the `Agent Spec Documentation <https://oracle.github.io/agent-spec/index.html>`_


Tool
----

This is the base class for tools.

.. _tool:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.tools.Tool


Client Tool
-----------

.. _clienttool:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.clienttools.ClientTool

Server Tool
-----------

.. _servertool:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.servertools.ServerTool

Remote Tool
-----------

.. _remotetool:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.remotetools.RemoteTool

MCP Tool
--------

`Model Context Protocol <https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction>`_ (MCP) is an open protocol that standardizes how applications provide context to LLMs.

.. _mcptool:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.MCPTool

.. _mcptoolbox:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.MCPToolBox

.. _sessionparameters:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.SessionParameters
    :exclude-members: to_dict

.. _enablemcpwithoutauth:
.. autofunction:: wayflowcore.mcp.enable_mcp_without_auth

.. _clienttransport:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.ClientTransport

.. _stdiotransport:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.StdioTransport

.. _ssetransport:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.SSETransport

.. _ssemtlstransport:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.SSEmTLSTransport

.. _streamablehttptransport:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.StreamableHTTPTransport

.. _streamablehttpmtlstransport:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.StreamableHTTPmTLSTransport


Tool decorator
--------------

.. _tooldecorator:
.. autofunction:: wayflowcore.tools.toolhelpers.tool

Tool Request and Result Classes
-------------------------------

.. _toolrequest:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.tools.ToolRequest

.. _toolresult:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.tools.ToolResult

ToolBox
-------

.. _toolbox:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.toolbox.ToolBox

Commit message:

feat: Basic RAG in Datastores (no chunking)
* feat: Basic RAG Datastore (no chunking)

* fix: order of init arguments in datastore deseiralization

* docs: fix references to the plugin Oracle Datastore

* fix: static checks errors for datastores

* fix: add required plugins for the Search Datastores

* docs: add wayflowcore.agentspec.components.search.PluginVectorConfig

---------

Co-authored-by: Louis Faucon <louis.faucon@oracle.com>

docs/wayflowcore/source/core/api/tools.rst, after:

Tools
=====

This page presents all APIs and classes related to tools in WayFlow


.. |agentspec-icon| image:: ../../_static/icons/agentspec-icon.svg
   :width: 100px

.. grid:: 1

    .. grid-item-card:: |agentspec-icon|
        :link: https://oracle.github.io/agent-spec/api/tools.html
        :link-alt: Agent Spec - Tools API Reference

        Visit the Agent Spec API Documentation to learn more about LLMs Components.


.. tip::

    Click the button above ↑ to visit the `Agent Spec Documentation <https://oracle.github.io/agent-spec/index.html>`_


Tool
----

This is the base class for tools.

.. _tool:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.tools.Tool


Client Tool
-----------

.. _clienttool:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.clienttools.ClientTool

Server Tool
-----------

.. _servertool:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.servertools.ServerTool

Tool from ToolBox
-----------------

.. _toolfromtoolbox:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.toolfromtoolbox.ToolFromToolBox

Remote Tool
-----------

.. _remotetool:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.remotetools.RemoteTool

MCP Tool
--------

`Model Context Protocol <https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction>`_ (MCP) is an open protocol that standardizes how applications provide context to LLMs.

.. _mcptool:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.MCPTool

.. _mcptoolbox:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.MCPToolBox

.. _sessionparameters:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.SessionParameters
    :exclude-members: to_dict

.. _enablemcpwithoutauth:
.. autofunction:: wayflowcore.mcp.enable_mcp_without_auth

.. _clienttransport:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.ClientTransport

.. _stdiotransport:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.StdioTransport

.. _ssetransport:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.SSETransport

.. _ssemtlstransport:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.SSEmTLSTransport

.. _streamablehttptransport:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.StreamableHTTPTransport

.. _streamablehttpmtlstransport:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.mcp.StreamableHTTPmTLSTransport


Tool decorator
--------------

.. _tooldecorator:
.. autofunction:: wayflowcore.tools.toolhelpers.tool

Tool Request and Result Classes
-------------------------------

.. _toolrequest:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.tools.ToolRequest

.. _toolresult:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.tools.ToolResult

ToolBox
-------

.. _toolbox:
.. autoclass:: wayflowcore.tools.toolbox.ToolBox
